# Decoding movements from ECoG signals
Previous research has shown that ECoG signals recorded from subjects moving a joystick while trying to track a target point can be used in order to decode the position of the cursor [1]. Methods like autoregressive models have been used before [1] and here we try to reproduce the results to decode cursor positions from ECoG signals using different methods - those of spectral analysis, feature analysis and linear regression to decode kinematic data from ECoG signals recorded in patients with intractable seizures. Due to the inter-subject differences in recording from different brain regions and the different channel counts per subject, we will train an individual model per subject.
As a part of the spectral analysis, we will calculate the power spectral density for each voltage channel. We will categorise this into seven bands - 8–12 Hz, 18–24 Hz (beta), 35–42 Hz, 42–70 Hz, 70–100 Hz, 100–140 Hz, 140–190 Hz  in the mu, beta and gamma frequency bands, similar to those used in [2]. Following this, we will calculate kinematic variables like position,velocity and acceleration of the cursor. Then we will correlate these variables with the features extracted from the neural data. We will fit a simple linear regression model in order to do so. If this model performs poorly, we will go on to use sophisticated machine learning models to predict the kinematics of the cursor from the neural data. These analyses will provide yet another method that can be used in training BCIs, as there is currently little research in joystick related ECoG data with the specific brain regions of our dataset.

**References:**
[1] G Schalk et al 2007 J. Neural Eng. 4 264
[2] Encoding of Movement Direction in Different Frequency Ranges of Motor Cortical Local Field Potentials Jörn Rickert, Simone Cardoso de Oliviera, Eilon Vaadia, Ad Aertsen, Stefan Rotter, Carsten Mehring Journal of Neuroscience 28 September 2005, 25 (39) 8815-8824.
